:orphan:

.. only:: html or text

    Abstract
    ========

**English:**

This paper shows the algorithms of the previously developed music recommendation
system *libmunin*. Apart from the construction of the internal graph data
structure, some selected, so called, providers and distance functions are
explained. Additionally, *libmunin's* mechanism for learning from the user in an
implicit or explicit way is shown in detail. Users of the library are supposed
to read this paper in order to maximize their understanding of *libmunin*. For
this purpose, some helpful tips for developing with and on *libmunin* are given
in the first chapters. At the end of the paper, some graphs and other
visualizations are shown, which were developed during the project.  In order to
understand the context, it is advisable to read the project report before
reading this paper. To be useful for interested developers, we reflect on the
shown topics in every chapter and list potential improvements.


**Deutsch:**

Diese Arbeit zeigt die Algorithmik hinter der vorgestellten
Musikemfehlungsbibliothek *libmunin*. Neben dem Aufbau des intern genutzten
Graphen, werden auch einige ausgewählte Provider und Distanzfunktionen erklärt.
Zusätzlich wird detailliert auf *libmunin's* Mechanismus zum implziten und
expliziten Lernen vom Nutzer eingegangen. Anwendungsentwickler sollten dieses
Papier lesen, um ihr Verständniss von *libmunin* zu vertiefen. Zu diesem Zwecke
werden anfangs einige hilfreiche Tipps für die Entwicklung von und mit
*libmunin* gegeben. Am Ende der Arbeit werden einige Graphen und
Visualisierungen gezeigt, die während der Arbeit an dem Projekt entstanden sind.
Es wird dringend empfohlen vor der Lektüre die Projektarbeit zu lesen um eine
grobe Übsersicht zu bekommen und den Kontext zu verstehen. Damit die Arbeit
nützlich für interessierte Entwickler ist, werden in jedem Kapitel die
vorgestellten Themen noch einmal reflektiert und potenzielle Verbesserungen
werden aufgezeigt.
